.TH gufw 8 "2 November 2016"

.SH NAME
Gufw \- Graphic user interface for managing ufw
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gufw is an easy to use Ubuntu / Linux firewall, powered by ufw.

Gufw is an easy, intuitive, way to manage your Ubuntu firewall. It supports common tasks such as allowing or blocking pre-configured, common p2p, or individual ports port(s), and many others! Gufw is powered by ufw.
Introduction
iptables is already a very powerful tool by itself, but it's syntax can get awkward at times and hard to figure out, so Ubuntu developers decided to make ufw ("The reason ufw was developed is that we wanted to create a server-level firewalling utility that was a little bit more for `human beings`"), which was to be simpler. Now, on the graphical side of things, Firestarer already existed. But why not make an even easier to use GUI for desktop `human beings`, powered by ufw? This is where Gufw comes in.

.SH "USAGE"
.SH BASIC SETTINGS
.PP
Gufw has two states: Enabled and disabled.
When Gufw is enabled, you can allow/reject/deny all incoming and outgoing connections.

.SH ADD PRECONFIGURED RULE(S)
.PP
You can select between more Programs and Services preconfigured.
Once Program/Service can have multiples rules.

.SH REMOVE ONE RULE
.PP
Steps:
   1. Select a rule in the list.
   2. Click in Remove button.
You can delete more rules if you select it.

.SH RESET CONFIGURATION
.PP
You will remove all rules and reset the ufw configuration to initial status (disable)!

.SH EDIT PREFERENCES
.PP
You can edit your preferences in /Edit/Preferences menu.

.SH IP/PORTS FORWARD
To routing policy and rules, you must setup IP forwarding:
   Close Gufw
   Uncomment the following lines in /etc/ufw/sysctl.conf:
      net/ipv4/ip_forward=1
      net/ipv6/conf/default/forwarding=1
      net/ipv6/conf/all/forwarding=1
   Restart firewall:
      ufw reload
   Open Gufw again: You'll see a new "Routed" option (with an arrow around the shield) and you can forward any rule from the Update window or Advanced Tab in Add window.

.SH USE GUFW WITHOUT GRAPHICAL ENVIRONMENT OR REMOTE COMPUTER
You can use Gufw in a Linux without Graphical Environment (for example an Ubuntu Server) or from a remote computer. You will need Gufw 13.10.2 or higher. Just export your X Display. All the operations in Gufw will be apply in the remote computer. 
Important: If you enable the firewall under ssh without the ssh rule, you'll close the ssh connection, then before to enable Gufw under a ssh connection, append the ssh rule using ufw with this command:
    sudo ufw enable ssh
Linux, for example:
    Remote computer without graphic environment (IP = 192.168.1.102, Gufw installed and ssh server).
    Local Linux. In this local computer, open a Terminal and run this command:
      ssh user_remote@192.168.1.102 -X
      sudo /usr/bin/gufw-pkexec -ssh
Windows (For example, Windows IP = 192.168.1.101; Linux IP = 192.168.1.100):
    Install Putty & Xming.
    In Windows: Run XLaunch from the Start Menu and check "No Access Control" in the last step.
    Connect to your Linux with Putty and run:
      export DISPLAY=192.168.1.101:0.0
      sudo /usr/bin/gufw-pkexec -ssh

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBufw\fR(8)
Official Documentation: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Gufw

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Gufw is (C) 2008-2019, Marcos Alvarez Costales <https://costales.github.io>.

.PP
This manual page was originally written by Marcos Alvarez Costales <https://costales.github.io>.
